  Assignment 1: Cloud Computing

Q1.What is Cloud?
-->
1.Cloud computing is the delivery of on demand computing services from applications to storage 
 and processing power.
2.it is typically over the internet and on a pay-as-you-go basis.

Q2.advantages of Cloud Computing?
-->
1.using cloud services companies not having to buy or maintain their own computing infrastructure.

2.Using cloud services companies can move faster on projects and test out concepts without lengthy procedure
 and big costs, because firms only pay for the resources they consume.

3.if a new application turns out to be a wildly popular the elastic nature of the cloud means it is easier to  
 scale it up fast.

Q3.what are the types of cloud computing?
-->
there are 3 types.,
1.private cloud
2.public cloud
3.Hybrid cloud

1.private cloud: 
                 a.it is specific to organization or company,
                 b.for companies that require additional security for that purpose private cloud may be useful.
                 c.for example: Reliance jio (they use their own tools).

2.public cloud:
               a.it is available to everyone.i.e.,company,idividual users etc.
               b.users can access a large computing power over the internet,
               c. The cloud computing suppliers have big  amounts of computing power, 
                   which they share between a large number of customers .
                d.examples are,Amazone :AWS(Amazone Web Services ,U.s goverment develop private cloud with the help of Amazone.)
                               Google : GCP
                              Microsoft :AZURE
                         ....these all are the vendors.

3.Hybrid cloud: (public cloud + Hybrid cloud)
                the main reasons for choosing hybrid cloud include disaster recovery planning and the desire to 
                avoid hardware costs when expanding their existing data center.

Q4.What is EC2?
-->
a.full form of EC2 is Elastic Compute Cloud.
b.Ec2 is part of AWS service.
c.it is virtual server same as laptop.
d.it is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. 
e.It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. 
f.in EC2 internet is available upto 100GBytes.
g.in EC2 mainataince,security are done by vendors